#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pdfbookmark[1]{Acknowledgments}{acknowledgments}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align right

\shape slanted
Drop by drop is the water pot filled.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Likewise, the wise man,
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 gathering it little by little,
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

fills himself with good.
\shape default

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset VSpace medskip
\end_inset

 --- The Buddha
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begingroup
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
clearpage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
cleardoublepage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When I finally decided to embark on the journey towards a PhD, it was motivated
 by the desire to keep growing as an individual and push the boundaries
 of my own knowledge about the world.
 This has proved to be a worthwhile pursuit and I admit that this broadened
 my view of research much more than I expected.
 I did not only learn about different topics, but also got to meet great
 and inspiring persons that all contributed to this journey in their own
 ways.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I would obviously like to first thank my advisor, Martin Hachet, for giving
 me this incredible opportunity to come to France and work at Inria in the
 Potioc team.
 Martin is a very humane person and was very supportive during these three
 years.
 He gave me the freedom to explore topics that appealed to me and helped
 me bring ideas to fruition.
 I would also like to thank Jacek Jankowski and Christian Muehl for their
 guidance and friendship.
 The many discussions we had about research and life in general really helped
 me grow both as a person and as a researcher.
 The years we spent together, along with Iza and Lisa, are full of nice
 memories I will treasure for years to come.
 Also, I would like to extend my thanks to Jérémy Laviole and Thomas Hulin
 for their friendship and support, especially at the start of my PhD.
 Jérémy is the one that got me into Spatial Augmented Reality along with
 opening my mind towards art and my many discussions with Thomas on self-improve
ment has been very inspiring for me.
 They both made themselves available to discuss a variety of technical problems
 and helped me sort them out.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of course, the different projects highlighted in this thesis could not have
 been possible without the collaboration and help from my friends and colleagues
 at the Potioc group.
 First and foremost, I want to thank Jérémy Frey, a person one can only
 qualify as the ideal collaborator.
 His enthusiasm, positivity and his seemingly endless reserve of energy
 has made working with him both motivating and inspiring.
 I can only hope that our paths may cross again in the future.
 I would also like to thank Joan Sol Roo with whom I worked in order to
 create the Tangible Viewports system.
 His great creativity and intelligence, as well as his technological proficiency
 made it a joy to work with him.
 Beyond this, he is also a great individual with whom I enjoyed my everyday
 interaction and rich philosophical discussions.
 Other members of Potioc are also worth mentioning for sharing with me their
 everyday good mood and friendship.
 I want to thank Fabien Lotte, Anke Brock, Pascal Guitton, Julia Chatain,
 Camille Jeunet, Damien Clergeaud, David Furio, Nicholas Katzakis and Asier
 Marzo.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On a more personal level, I want to thank my family and friends from Quebec
 for whom a thesis meant seeing each others much less frequently.
 Every time I end a call with each one of them, I feel like an amazingly
 rich person.
 Especially, I want to thank my parents, Odette and Paul, as well as my
 sister, Joline, for everything.
 Their love and support have made all of this work possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, and certainly not the least, I would like to thank my dear and
 lovely wife Dominique.
 Dominique agreed to marry me and join this adventure to France for more
 than 3 years, knowing very well what doing a thesis would imply.
 The path was certainly not always easy, but I feel that these three years
 were not only filled with opportunities to grow, individually and together,
 but also with smiles and fond memories.
 I am blessed to have her in my life and thank her for everything.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
endgroup
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
