#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Spatial Augmented Reality as a Mixing Medium
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "cha:sar"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This chapter provides an overview of Augmented Reality (AR) and, more specifical
ly, Spatial Augmented Reality (SAR).
 Since the work presented in all following chapters uses SAR, this chapter
 aims at pooling the related work and implementation details in a single
 place in order to avoid useless repetitions.
 The goal is to explain enough background to provide a global understanding
 of SAR principles and some details on the implementation used throughout
 the thesis.
 However, we will avoid doing a very extensive literature review of the
 whole SAR field since more specific related work will be introduced in
 each chapter as appropriate.
 Also, while we will cover some basic notions of SAR, an interested reader
 can get a more thorough understanding of the different principles of this
 AR paradigm in Bimber and Raskar's book 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Bimber2005"

\end_inset

 on the topic.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section covers the main concepts and definitions related to AR and
 SAR.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Augmented Reality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As mentioned previously, augmented reality consists in overlaying computer
 generated information on a real-world experience.
 The overarching goal of AR is to create a seamless experience, merging
 both real and digital information.
 Sutherland 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Sutherland1965"

\end_inset

, as soon as 1965, proposed the idea of an 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Ultimate Display
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

: a room within which the computer could control the existence of matter.
 A few year later, he was also the first one to build a head-mounted display
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Sutherland1968"

\end_inset

.
 While surveying the field, Azuma provided an definition of an AR system
 so that it would be flexible enough to not be technology dependent 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Azuma1997"

\end_inset

.
 It comprised of three criteria:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Combines real and virtual
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Is interactive in real-time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Is registered in three dimensions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Spatial Augmented Reality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
How does it work?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
What is SAR good for?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
SAR vs Screens
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
