#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
TOBE: Tangible Out-of-Body Experience
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "cha:tobe"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Marginal
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Note Greyedout
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Technology speeds up instead of calming us down
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It strikes me how technology is often only associated with performance and
 efficiency.
 How, basically, as we get more tools to do more and more difficult tasks,
 our lives do not get easier.
 We instead strive for even more efficient tools to tackle even more complex
 tasks.
 This accelarating threadmill would not be such a problem if it would make
 us happy overall.
 However, as our lives are getting more connected, global and complex, stress
 is on the rise [REF].
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
[ref] about increasing stress
\end_layout

\end_inset

 At the same time, we are still trying to achieve overall calm and well-being.
 Bret Victor says it best:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
If you follow technology, it will only gets you to adopts its way of working.
 Instead, we have to wonder how a humane technology would look like.
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Change with actuall quotation.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Victor2014"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Calm computing [REF].
 What we think makes us happy vs what makes us happy.
 (probably too philosophical and high level).
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
